Technology and Grief

The “Black Mirror” episode Be Right Back addresses quite a few topics, and does so with a chilling story about a widow who is able to bring her husband back from the dead with technology… sort of. It covers addiction to technology, artificial intelligence, how technology can harm but also aid us, and how it changes the way people grieve (or don’t grieve). After watching the episode for the second time, I became more curious about how the process of losing a loved one and grieving has been affected by the rapid advancements in technology over the past few decades. 

In a lot of instances, it’s no longer the case that one might forget the face or voice of loved ones who have passed on. We have so much recorded that there’s always something left: a voicemail, a cell phone video, pictures, and even the late friend’s social media accounts. The concept of turning someone’s online history into a memorial extends past the reach of “Black Mirror” though. People have actually tried this, created bots, and reflected on them. Perhaps society hasn’t progressed enough to use the collected data in any other form but a chat bot, but it’s not necessarily unreasonable to think that someone might create some advanced that not only speaks like their loved one, but looks like them too. 

In [this article](https://www.ft.com/content/95dc5584-1c12-11e8-aaca-4574d7dabfb6) by Emma Jacobs, she discusses coping with her father’s death: for a long time, she would send text messages to his phone number, of course never getting a response. When she finally worked up the courage to call the number, a young girl answered and she received confirmation that it wasn’t her father on the other end, even if she really knew that all along. But amidst the madness of her grief, Jacobs did find comfort in the fact that she was communicating with her father in some obscure way. Something about it felt *real*, even though it obviously wasn’t. 

Processing grief and mourning loved ones is constantly changing along with the technology of our world. And there is a lot of conversation about how technology affects the grieving process. The article discusses that hanging onto technology related to a loss might seem, “creepy at first,” it can also be “an immense comfort. It is not a sign of pathology, simply grief.” So the process simply changes with technology because they coexist, and it makes sense that grief would change along with all of the other things that technology has an impact on in daily life. 

One person who had regular interaction with a chatbot of their late loved one said that, “looking at our relationship as closely as I could, and putting it in a form of my own tribute to my friend — that for me was finally accepting he is gone, but also realising that he will always be part of me.” Creating and using the chatbot was supposedly helpful, and actually helped this person come to accept that their friend would be gone, while also recognizing that person’s impact on their life. But in Be Right Back, Mar’s interactions with her husband’s chat bot seemed to have an opposite effect. She was not able to accept his death, and I would say that talking to him through the bot pulled her farther and farther away from healing, toward denial in its stead.
Obviously humans have different reactions to things, which could explain the vastly different reactions to these chat bots. But I have to wonder how much of that is due to the fact that people process differently, and how much is due to the technology itself. Is “out of sight, out of mind” more effective when it comes to getting through grief? Do the constant reminders of loved ones, made possible with social media and technology, make processing loss harder, or easier? Perhaps it’s just something that changes with the times, like anything else. But it’s sort of eye-opening how many memories we can keep and access of those who have passed on. The amount of accessible information is vastly different than it was even 100 years ago. And I have to wonder if dealing with death is harder for the general population now than it was before.
