I was initially excited to hear Montfort speak about his computational poetry, as I found his work very compelling when I first read (experienced? watched?) some of it for class. I’m an English major with a minor in computer science. In terms of my own career development, I’m very interested in the potential of combining these two subjects and studying their relationship with one another, something I haven’t had much of a chance to do while in classes. Reading and Writing in the Digital Age has been a nice change of pace in that regard: I finally have the chance to explore more about both technology and language. I would love a future career that recognizes the value of both computers and humanities, and I often feel discouraged because of typical STEM attitudes about humanities (particularly English) being unimportant or less important than tech. I went into Montfort’s talk hoping to validate that there are people and establishments that care about this intersection of language and tech, and that happened to a certain extent.

I was very intrigued by the beginning of the lecture, particularly in Montfort’s claim that exploring future ideas is not prediction, but literally future-making. And I found that his readings were evocative and powerful, especially considering the topics of the poetry which ranged from sexual consent to gun control. But Montfort went on to explain that it wasn’t the content of the actual poetry but the code that he cared about. He also said that the subject matter from which the code generated poetry was not intentional nor was it important or meant to send a message. The poetry lost effectiveness and impact for me because of this. 

I still have respect for and interest in the idea that computing can teach us a lot about language, and potentially about the future. However, I feel like these ideas were not very well-developed in Montfort’s talk and when asked what he learned about those very ideas, he stated that it wasn’t something he could put into words and share. And if that’s the case, then I didn’t really see much point in the talk. Considering the articles that Montfort’s programs drew from to generate the poetry, I feel that there is a certain responsibility to acknowledge the potential messages that the poetry will send, but it was instead ignored. I don’t think that Montfort needs to make his poetry extremely political, but I think that drawing from articles about mass shootings is going to send a political message regardless of his intent, and that should be recognized and addressed rather than skirted around. 

My personal definition of poetry includes acknowledging that words mean something and have their own effects on an audience. I would assume the majority of people who encounter Montfort’s poems are engaging with them as poetry, so even though he views his body of work as the code rather than its resulting poetry, the work is still read as poetry. He only emphasized that his body of work was only the code itself at the very end of the lecture. I feel like this should have happened at the very beginning, so that we could all go into the conversation with this in mind. 

There is value in exploring how programs can construct various forms of writing. There’s value in using code to discover trends in language, literature, and current events. If that’s what Montfort is doing, I feel like it could have been far more clearly described and conveyed to us. I feel like the talk focused on the poetry despite the fact that the project is really an exploration of language with code. I feel like there was potential to talk about whether or not the resulting poems were poetry, and whether a program generating words is really all that different from a human mind creating poetry. Montfort’s work doesn’t really fit into my personal definition of poetry, but I wanted to learn what his work tells us about the future, and unfortunately that did not happen, but I do still think the concepts behind the project are very compelling. 
