After playing The Fullbright Company’s *Gone Home*, I started thinking a lot about the format of the game, and imagined what it would be like if it were in VR. With a VR headset and controllers, one could effectively become Kaitlin, look at their surroundings, and almost hold all of the items that she must examine throughout the course of the game. Considering the game’s release date of 2013, it makes sense that it wasn’t in VR, but I still think it’s interesting to conceptualize. How would a VR port change experiencing the story? Would one feel even more connected to the story of this family?

In an [article for VRFocus](https://www.vrfocus.com/2016/01/make-it-a-virtual-reality-gone-home/), Jamie Feltham discusses the game’s recent release on consoles, and explains why it would be such a great fit for VR. Feltham states that, “players aren’t force fed a story here; they discover it themselves without any outside aid. It’s a completely natural way to learn about characters and events that brings you closer to the world you explore.” According to Feltham, this type of exploration is perfect for VR, and could, “convince many gamers of the power of this new medium,” the medium being the *video game* as a storyteller.

Technology has introduced so many new ways to tell stories, whether it’s something multimedia story like Join Bois’ 17776, or a video game narrative in VR. I have to wonder exactly how far VR will be able to go when it comes to telling stories and crafting gameplay experiences. Video games are already known for being immersive as is, but when the game takes up your entire vision and you must actually use your body to make things happen in a game, obviously that sensation is amplified. As a lover of storytelling, I’m very excited to see where VR will take stories, and I hope there are more exploratory games like *Gone Home* in the future (and I’m sure there will be). 

I do wonder what the reception will be like: as we’ve discussed in class, every new technology is met with scrutiny and criticism, and the newest tech trends are often accused of “tainting the youth” and taking away real life experience. Whether it’s cheapening the ability of the human brain to memorize things with the technology of writing things down, or keeping kids from experiencing the beauty of nature with video games, there are people who have a problem with it. But I hope that people are able to see that storytelling, in whatever form, allows people to see parts of the world they’d never see otherwise, and worlds that don’t even exist yet. Are there effective ways to combat negative attitudes towards tech, especially immersive technology, instead of vilifying it? Or are we stuck in this cycle of being discomforted by and hating the next big thing forever? Will there ever be a point where mankind becomes saturated enough with technology that we aren’t so bothered by new introductions? 
