Our readings and class discussions have taught me a lot about Wikipedia, and to be honest, I hadn’t really thought about its inner workings before. I knew that anyone could contribute to the articles but that the active editors would take down articles and edits very often; the most editing that people in my personal life have talked about has been editing the pages of celebrities and musical artists as a joke. [The Endless Night of Wikipedia’s Notable Woman Problem](https://www.boundary2.org/2018/08/moravec/) was an especially interesting read, and it really speaks to the fact that women are excluded from history, even on a platform like Wikipedia, which probably houses the most information of any other site out there. It has been shown that there is a lot of gendered bias in articles that do include women, and just as any other online circle, I suppose, women fase lashback for simply existing in the space at all.

So it was very interesting to me that in the article, Moravec concedes that “the major mechanism for rectifying the lack of entries about women is to encourage women to contribute them.” She also recognizes that the hostility women face in the community serves as a barrier preventing that very thing. It’s a paradox, of course: women need to write more articles about women in order to be included at all, but they are forced away by the majority demographic. 

Which raises my first question: Why is the onus always put on women to fix inequalities that they did not cause? It’s an all too familiar story, and it applies to gaming as well, which is why I’ve chosen to write my Wikipedia article about a prominent woman in the community, AnneMunition. It's killing two birds with one stone, so to speak.

An extremely popular video game streamer Ninja came under fire recently because he shared his decision [not to play video games with any women on his stream](https://www.bbc.com/news/newsbeat-45169157). He admits that there’s nothing wrong with women, and that they don’t do anything wrong, but because of the way the video game community already treats them, he doesn’t want to stream with them. He says that viewers will create rumors about whatever woman he’s playing with, putting his marriage in jeopardy, and his relationship is something he’s unwilling to put on the line. 

Which leads me to my main point, which is about privacy: many of the people who support Ninja say that this choice is his private decision, and that he can choose to do whatever he wants with his personal life. But when you are the most popular streamer on the biggest streaming platform, to what degree are your decisions regarding that stream really “personal?” Ninja has millions of subscribers on YouTube, and many subscribers on Twitch. A great number of these viewers encompass the main target demographic of Ninja’s primary game, Fortnite: children and teens. Ninja’s choice to exclude women is sending a message to all of these people that not only do women not belong in the gaming space, but that men and women can’t have strictly platonic relationships, and that women are out to ruin relationships. 

Should non-anonymous public figures have the same right to privacy on the internet as the average person? Are any of Ninja’s on-stream choices really simply “personal decisions” that cannot be contested? All of these choices affect millions of people who regularly tune in to his channels. In this digital age, where do we draw that line when someone is such an influential figure? I’d like to think that the people who exacerbate the problems women face on the internet would be held accountable for their actions. But when those actions are backed up with a personal excuse, can we really even ask for anything else?
