The rise of the internet has allowed people to find community where they otherwise wouldn’t if it didn’t exist. For example, people are able to form Dungeons & Dragons groups online when they aren’t enough local people, as mentioned in class. Some questionable groups of people are also able to form communities, such as misogynistic incels and alt-right nationalists… but overall, there is something valuable in the internet’s ability to organize people and give people community, and friends, people that wouldn’t have been discovered otherwise. 

[Baratunde Thurston’s reflections](https://www.fastcompany.com/3012521/baratunde-thurston-leaves-the-internet) about his social media break were very striking to me, especially this conclusion: “I can measure how many ‘likes’ an idea has. If my tweet was not retweeted, did I even tweet it? Never before have we had the ability to microgauge our own rhetorical value to the world.” 

Today, we have units of measurement for worth in likes, comments, retweets, etc. Social media serves as validation that you are worth something, that your ideas are worth something, and that you exist alongside other humans on this planet, who are doing the same thing you’re doing: measuring their worth in terms of how much attention they receive on social media. 

I’m lucky enough not to gauge my own worth with likes: I post every few weeks on Instagram, close the app, and forget that I posted until I see the notifications in the app. But this isn’t the case for everyone, and most people in my generation have a different experience. I know people who have their friends vet their every post to make sure it’s “acceptable” and people who delete posts if they don’t receive a certain amount of likes in a certain timeframe. To some people, likes mean *a lot*.

I also know people who have never succeeded in getting an amount of likes they deemed acceptable… so they created fake profiles, where they used someone else’s pictures and information just to get attention. And somehow it does make people feel better, despite the fact that it’s the person in the pictures, and not themselves, getting the attention. 

My first experience with this was through watching MTV’s *Catfish*, a popular television show where the hosts travel across the United States helping people who think they are being romantically *catfished*, meaning that they suspect the person they are romantically involved in through the internet is not who they say they are. In my years of watching the show, I don’t recall a single catfish who didn’t have deeply-rooted self confidence issues. And these issues are the reason that these people lie about their appearance first and foremost, but also about other details in their life. [Though the legitimacy of the investigation process has been questioned](http://www.vulture.com/2014/05/catfish-mtv-casting-production-process.html), apparently the catfish are all real, even if the details of uncovering their real identities might be fudged a little. 

Social media not only impacts self worth and confidence, but for those who have virtually no confidence, its anonymity also allows people an escape. By pretending to be someone else, people can get a little bit of the validation that they are deprived of when they act as themselves. Whether your profile and pictures are fake or not, if you are getting those notifications and likes, it still makes you feel better, at least for most of these catfish. And a lot of people get away with it for years at a time because they have just enough anonymity to avoid being discovered, and their victims aren’t quite good enough at investigating through reverse image searches or other means. 

Is there any way to separate the relationship between likes and self worth? Other than unplugging completely like Thurston, how can people take control of their social media use and see it as a way to connect with others rather than measure their value in this world? Additionally, how can we promote more internet literacy so people don’t get so easily taken advantage of?
