I engaged in a “No Digital Day” on September 29th, 2018. I refrained as much as possible from using any technology that wouldn’t have existed in the year 1992. I thought that this would be an interesting challenge for myself, and I scheduled it for a day that I thought it would be particularly challenging for me. In the morning, I was traveling from Boston to my hometown of Plymouth, where I attended my goddaughter’s birthday party. Normally this trip takes about an hour and a half, but because of weekend changes to the MBTA, it took even longer. Instead of being able to ride straight from Boston to my hometown, I had to take another train to North Quincy, where I had to wait for a bus that brought me to Braintree. There, I was finally able to switch onto the commuter rail train that brought me to my hometown. This is important to note because I had to endure an entire extra hour of avoiding my technology: normally I listen to music on my phone, browse the web, and message friends to pass the time on the train. Because of the transit changes, this time I couldn’t even do those things.

My only saving grace was that I’d brought a book I was reading for my Modern Bestsellers class. If I hadn’t brought that book, I likely would have tried to fall asleep to no avail, considering all of the connections I had to make on this journey. Even while reading the book, I found myself wanting to check my phone every few minutes towards the beginning of my journey. Once I settled into my reading more, I still wanted to check my phone at the end of each chapter that I finished. This made my struggles with reading very apparent: I don’t like reading on a screen, and I try to avoid it because I’ve noticed that my eyesight has gotten significantly worse over the past few years. But even reading on paper has become more difficult for me, and though I can’t describe all of the reasons why, I know that the instant gratification of the internet has played a big role in my inability to focus on reading for long periods of time. Books take longer to digest than Vines, or example, which are 6 seconds long. Most of the media I consume is in the format of a video game, which is highly interactive, making it able to grab my focus and engage me in a way that makes it difficult to put down. I don’t feel thay same way about reading novels anymore, even though I did as a child: the internet and other forms of media either require less work or are more immersive than books, and in that way technology has changed my relationship with reading. Luckily the book was able to distract me well enough from my phone not to look at it, but I did want to very often over the course of the journey home. I did have to use my phone to call my mother once I got off the train so she knew to pick me up, but that was sort of permissible for 1992.

When we got to the birthday party, I was spending a lot of time with my family and didn’t have a lot of desire to look at my phone at first. The only technology in use at the house was the television, which was also a thing in 1992 so that was fine, but I wasn’t watching it a lot anyway. I’m a very introverted person and a lot of my more distant family members don’t seem to understand or accept that all the time, so after a while of talking with them about my life, I got antsy. Usually I’d go into a different room or go outside for a bit and casually browse on my phone, but I couldn’t do that so I just sort of sat there and dealt with it, then got some food (people can’t talk as much when they’re eating). I’m really not that into family parties, especially parties for four-year-olds where there’s nothing to do that’s particularly interesting to me. I was pleasantly surprised with how little I actually wanted to look at my phone at the party considering how generally uninterested I was in it: maybe I had gotten a little bit used to it during the commute. But I still did want to play with my phone at times to curb this weird anxiety about talking to people. 

After the party, my immediate family went to eat at our favorite restaurant. Luckily enough for this project, I actually don’t ever get cell service at the restaurant, and seemed to have already conditioned myself not to even bother looking at my phone. I have been to this restaurant so many times and have attempted to browse the internet or send a message so many times only for it to fail; being in this environment wasn’t particularly challenging, because I had already gradually stopped using my phone in this building. The only thing of note that happened here is that I had to catch a train at a certain time, so I was sometimes tempted to look at my phone for the time. In the end, I just had to trust that my parents knew when to leave so that I’d make it to the train station on time. Otherwise, my little brother would sometimes attempt to show me something he was playing on my stepfather’s phone, but I had to tell him that I was doing a “no phones” day so that he’d understand why I couldn’t look instead of feeling like I was ignoring him. But my experience in the restaurant brings up an interesting point: my environment greatly affects my reliance on technology. In an environment where I’m already unattached to technology, I don’t reach for my phone every few minutes. For example, a few of my courses this semester are “no technology” courses, meaning that the use of phones and laptops is prohibited entirely. In those classes, I don’t crave the technology that I usually use, because I’m just used to going without it in those environments. Alternatively, in contexts where I’m usually permitted to use my technology, it’s harder to refrain from engaging with it. The environmental associations are absolutely strong enough to influence how I act and engage with that technology.

On the ride home, it was more difficult not to look at my phone but I persevered anyway. The long day combined with the long train ride made it hard, but somehow I was able to do it. Reflecting upon the experience, I don’t necessarily think I would do it again, or at least not as strictly. If I had a reasonable excuse not to, it would be that I was going camping or doing something that made the use of technology pointless anyway. I find that quitting things cold turkey so to speak isn’t very easy for me, and it’s not a fun way to improve my life. The same goes for eating and other health habits: making small sustainable changes is more impactful over long periods of time for me, and I wouldn’t want to cut out technology entirely unless there was good reason to. There were a lot of benefits of it: I read a book, I talked to family more than I might have otherwise, and I wasn’t having many “withdrawals,” but whether or not I do something like this again would depend on how I think making that choice would or wouldn’t enrich a particular experience in a notable way.

I would say that I was pleasantly surprised overall with my lack of dependence on technology, at least for this day. I think that this would have been a lot more difficult to accomplish if I had just been holed up in my dorm room all day long, with nothing external to engage my brain. I had a lot of people to talk to, a book to read, and food to eat. Perhaps these distractions are the only reason that I was able to do this as easily as I was, but it was still quite a feat and I didn’t necessarily expect that it would go the way it did. The most interesting thing that I noticed was definitely my inability to focus on reading a book: as I said before, it took a few chapters for me to really get into the book, and I often found that I had to re-read paragraphs or entire pages that my brain didn’t fully process the first time. I assume that this is due in part to the fact that I don’t read anything quite as long on the internet. I may technically read a lot of words, but my attention span isn’t as good as it used to be. Everything on the internet is instantly available, and equally instantly gratifying. When I want to know something, I can find the answer within seconds through a quick Google search, whereas reading every single word in order to gain information, whether that information is data or a narrative, takes a lot more time that I no longer have so much patience for. 

As I discussed a bit earlier, I was definitely interested particularly in the way I engaged with reading on the train. For a lot of that time, I did find that I felt like I wasn’t engaged enough in something despite the fact that I was literally engaged with a book. If I’d been using my phone, I would have paid a lot more focused, interested attention to the phone itself. And I think that has to do with just how much the phone contains. As long as I have service, I can access pretty much anything on the internet and will find some way to be entertained, whether it’s a common social media app like Instagram, or a Reddit thread about something I’ve never heard of. I have noticed over time that I tend to switch rapidly between apps on my phone, though, because even the current app can’t hold my attention for so long. I do the same on my computer when I can’t focus on one thing: switch rapidly between browser tabs of Twitter, Reddit, and YouTube until I find something I settle on. I think the expanse of the internet plays a role, and technology allows people to access whatever part of it they want. It’s almost like there’s too many options, and I get stressed out the same way I would if I had too many assignments: I don’t know where to start, and I can’t focus easily. It’s not so much about my attention to something on my phone as it is the attention to the phone itself, and to the fact that it connects me.

I almost feel in danger without it, as if I’m missing out on key information about the world with every second that goes by. My phone and computer allow me to speak with my friends who live far away and to learn about the world around me very quickly, so I feel a strange sense of anxiety without access to it. Phones specifically are such an important part of how I communicate, and how a lot of people in the world communicate now, that anything less is inefficient and ineffective. I couldn’t imagine going back to sending snail mail; I would just be impatient, having no idea what to do with myself over the course of that grueling wait. This day definitely opened my eyes to the role that technology has in my life: it’s a distraction, a drainer of my attention, and something that has made my brain increasingly harder to please and fully engage. Overall, this was an interesting experience and I wouldn’t mind trying it again, if the choice made sense in the context of what I was doing for that day, as I said before.
